As I mentioned at the top of
this exercise discussion,
we have different data structures
that we can choose that end up
leading us down different
algorithmic approaches.
So sometimes, the real question is not,
can I come up with a different algorithm?
It's actually, can I come up with
a better suited data structure?
And a lot of times,
the data structure it's front loading,
the processing work, if you will,
to get the data into a format that will
make it easier for us to work with.
So there are data structures that are
pretty well known in these words space.
And I wanna talk about a choice of using
one of those because it seems like
a pretty natural choice for us.
The data structures referred to as a Trie,
a T-r-i-e.
There's a little bit of debate as
to how to pronounce this because
a lot of people pronounce it as Trie.
Because if you say Trie TrIe,
that's really confusing.
I think prefer to
pronounce it as Trie Trie.
But the guy who invented this invented
the name of this from the middle
characters of the word retrieval, so
he wanted it to be pronounced Trie.
So if you're sticking to
the original definition,
this is a gift versus gift thing.
You're supposed to call it a Trie Trie,
but most people like to say Trie Trie,
whichever one you prefer.
What's the notion of this data structure?
Well, obviously it is
a Trie data structure.
You'll notice that we
start out with a node and
the values inside of the node
are not the important part.
It's the linkages between nodes
where the meaning is assigned.
So, we're always start out with a root
node, and it has, in this case,
for this dictionary, two children,
one labeled C and one labeled E.
That represents of all
the words in our dictionary,
what are the unique first characters
of all the words that we have.
So we have CAN, CAP, CAPE,
CAR, CARE, and CLAP.
Those are all C.
And then EACH and EAR I'll start with E.
That's why we have a C and an E.
And you'll notice that it's
a recursively defined Trie so
the same is true that underneath C we
have A and L because of our words.
The only first two letters are C-A and
C-L.
And then we have C-A-N, C-A-P, C-A-R.
Those are the only first three letters.
We have C-L-A-P.
So, you can see how this dictionary
structure, or this Tri-Trie structure,
is representing all of the words
in our Trie one letter at a time.
Here's where this data structure
is most commonly cited.
One of the most common usages of it is for
autocomplete.
When somebody has typed in the first
several letters of something, like for
example in a search box, and you wanna
return all of the possible suggestions to
make to them,
you match on the first few characters.
And hopefully visually you can
see why that would be useful.
If you had a data structure like this
representing all the possible suggestions,
and somebody typed in the first three
letters, you just simply go down,
you follow what they've typed down
in the Trie one at a time down,
and then the rest of the words
that can be made in that Trie,
are the suggestions that
you give back to them.
You don't need to consider the whole rest
of the structure, only that sub-Trie.
So that's one of the most common
usages of this data structure.
I'm showing it to you because
when I started this problem,
I kind of had this intuition, maybe this
data structure would also be useful for
our case, which is a little bit
like autocomplete but not quite.
And so, it was an exploration
that I tried to see whether or
not this Trie Trie would work.
The only other thing to point out,
it should be obvious here, but
the blue coding that I have there,
we have to indicate which ones of
these nodes represent actual end
of words where they're valid.
So the black ones don't
represent an end of a word.
CA in our dictionary is not a word,
but C-A-P is a word and
C-A-P-E is also a word.
So, it is not the case that only
leaf nodes can be the end of words.
We have to track an additional
boolean on each node that says is this
the end of a word or not?
And we track that as we
build up the Trie Tree.
So we see E-A-R is a word and
that's why that's marked as blue.
But E-A-C is not a word and
that's why that one is still black.
Another thing that we know just because
this is a well known data structure,
we know that traversal of
a Trie Tree is done in linear time.
It's actually K times M,
â K is the length of the dictionary,
like the number of words.
And I'm sorry, K is the average
length of words in the dictionary,
and M is the number of
words in the dictionary.
So K times M, that's sort of a fixed,
known thing in your dictionary size.
You can treverse it in linear time.
Make sure I'm saying that correctly.
I think I said it incorrectly.
The average length of words represents
the average height of the tree.
So that's what K is,
is the height of the Trie and
M is the number of words
in the dictionary.
I think I'm saying that correctly.
Anyway, because it's a known data
structure, we just know it has that known
property we need to go and
re-prove to ourselves that math.
That's just a known stated property.
If we construct a data
structure like that,
we know that we'll be able to
traverse it in linear time.
Let's switch back over to our code editor.
And we're gonna start
again with our load words.
Instead of making dictionary an array,
we're now gonna make an object.
A Trie,
it doesn't need to be anything more
than simply linking objects together.
Having an object with one or
more properties under that point to other
objects, that's all it
really takes to make a tree.
So we're just gonna start with a plain
old empty object that will represent our
root node.
And instead of loading this thing up into
a copy of an array, we're gonna just
create this nested series of objects as we
load the words from the word list array.
And then we need to keep
track of how many we've done,
So I'll have that count here and
we'll return that.
One other thing that I wanna
do is I wanna have a special
property on each node that let's us know
whether or not it's the end of a word,
and I wanna have a symbol to define that.
So I'm gonna call that symbol as word.
Symbol is one of the primitive data
structures added in JavaScript back
in ES6.
It's just a Unique primitive
value could think of it like a number or a
string, but it's guaranteed to be unique.
All right, so what we're going to do,
firstly, let's just make sure,
because we know that our app can
call load words multiple times,
we need to reset the dictionary each
time we pick a different drop-down.
So, I'm just gonna check to see whether or
not our dictionary has anything in it.
And I'll reset it to
an empty object in case.
So we'll just throw away the old Trie and
rebuild it.
All right, we're gonna go one at
a time through the words in the word
list array that was given
to us from the JSON file.
And there's no recursion involved here,
which is kind of nice.
We're just going to do an iterative
traversal down this Trie.
And the way we do an iterative
traversal down the Trie,
is we just keep track of a reference,
a pointer if you will,
a reference to the current
level of Trie that we're at.
So we start that reference at the root
node and this property, I mean,
this variable code node will be our
reference pointer to our current root or
our sub-root as we go down our Trie.
And then,
we need to loop through all of the letters
in this particular dictionary word.
So let letter of word.
It's nice that JavaScript ES6
made strings iterable.
So we can just get each of the characters
out of a string with a full of loop.
And we need to ask if at, for this
letter and wherever I am at traversing
down in my Trie, have I yet
created a node for that letter?
Because we're gonna see the same starting
letter from a whole bunch of words, and
we don't need to recreate
the object over and over.
So we only need to create
it the first time.
So we can just say if node being
our pointer to whatever our current
portion of the Trie is, if not node
of letter, meaning we have not yet
created that child, then we need
to go ahead and create that child
And that object I said that
the objects were empty or
that they didn't carry any
particular data payload, but
they do need to have that Boolean
flag on them that tells us whether or
not they're a word or not,
whether they represent the end of a word.
So we're gonna include that symbol,
the isword symbol as our property name and
we'll initially set each
node the Boolean to false.
So we're saying the property
of that symbol name value is
false as we add in a node.
We do need to keep track of the count.
So this is a good place for
us to increment our counter so
that we know how many of these
nodes we have created Actually,
let's do that inside the F because
that's where we actually created it
After we have added a letter or
at least found an existing one,
whether we added it or found an existing
one, now we can advance the pointer.
So we can say node = node of letter.
So we're simply taking that running
reference that was started out at
the root, and now it's pointing to this
child node whether we just created it or
had already created it.
So we're basically just walking our way
down for every word in the dictionary.
We're walking our way down
to the place in the Trie,
where that word would have needed
to be finally represented.
And at any place where we haven't yet
gotten the nodes for
the letters left in that word,
we just add them.
So we're just progressively filling out
more and more of the Trie with more and
more of these nodes.
At the end of the four loop where we
have added all of the letters for
a word, we know that the node reference,
the node pointer there,
that variable node that is pointing
at the last letter of the word, and
therefore, we should take that one and
set its symbol to true.
Because that does represent
the end of a word.
So we're gonna say node,
of is word = true.
Those 20 or so lines of code
are all that it takes to construct
a basic data structure that
behaves like a Trie tree.
Now, there are well known
implementations of data
structures like Trie trees
that you can find on NPM.
And some of you have
probably already Googled for
this is there an implementation
of a Trie tree?
They are more sophisticated.
They have API methods.
They're written as instances of
classes and all of this other fanfare.
And those very well might be
the kind of code that you would like
to just use in a production app.
But I like to do the bare minimum that
is necessary to get the job done.
So, if it only took me 15 or 20 lines of
code to write a Trie tree implementation,
like I've done here,
that's what I would almost certainly do,
rather than going and getting a 400
line nicely packaged, Trie Tree.
There is a dividing line where
the complexity of doing your own
implementation, and all of the potential
performance gotchas where you
might not have an optimized solution,
it becomes actually way better for
you to use a known well
battle tested implementation.
So this one's only 15 or 20 lines of code,
it's conceptually pretty straightforward.
there's not a lot of places where
we could have made a mistake or
performance foot gun or
something like that.
So, I think this code is the right code.
This is the code I would
use in production.
But in our next option, we're gonna start
looking at data structures that are much
more complicated and that we definitely
don't wanna reinvent ourselves.
And we'll use packages that exist for
them.
Okay, so
you do have to make those judgement calls,
just be wary of where's that balance
line of how many lines of codes and
how many potential pitfalls
have I introduced.